Total pages: 10

--- PAGE 0 ---
THE NAISHK LESSON  
Our Commitment to Great Teaching and Learning.  
THE NAISHK LESSON  
1. Do Now  
Positive Routine | Objectives  
Learning begins the minute our students enter the door , for example,  a purposeful ‘ Do 
Now’ activity is provided  for students to review or connect their learning , or introduce a 
new concept/topic. (See Appendix 1)  
Teachers greet students positively, whilst completing their usual duties and routines.  
Objectives are carefully framed to share the purpose of the lesson. (See Appendix 2)  
2. Pace and Purpose  
Planning | Sequencing  | Review of Learning  
Our lessons match to learners’ needs , encouraging and challenging students to practice 
until learning is fluent and secure . Example: Using differentiated practice questions. (See 
Appendix 3)  
Lessons also include opportunities to review prior and new learning.  (See Appendix 4)  
3. All Opt-In 
Engagement  | Questioning  | Challenge  
All NAISHK students are encouraged to actively participate in their learning. Opting in is 
always welcomed  and celebrated in our lessons . 
A range of  questioning techniques  ensure all our students participate in their learning . For 
example, w e adopt a  no-hands up  policy. (See Appendix 5)  
Our lessons  are carefully scaffolded to  challenge every student  to aim high, for example, 
using stretch and challenge activities. (See Appendix 6) 
4. Active Participation  
Student led -learning | Practice  | Oracy Expectations  
Lessons promote opportunities for s tudents to independently and collaboratively learn or 
model their learning . (See Appendix 7)  
We foster a strong climate of high expectations , positive relationships  and trust  which 
enables students to develop their oracy skills. (See Appendix 8)  
5. Modelling  
Scaffolded Learning | Clear Expectations | Success Criteria  
Students know what success looks like at their level and the steps to make progress.  (See 
Appendix 9)  
We model and demonstrate new skills or procedures with appropriate scaffolding and 
challenge . (See Appendix 10)  
6. Feedback  
Appropriate | Actionable | Purposeful  
Staff provide actionable feedback to guide students’ learning. Students respond 
appropriately to feedback about their thinking, knowledge and understanding to 
demonstrate progress. For example, William’s Four Quarters Marking (See Appendix 11)   
Our lessons end with a reflection  of learning , checking for understanding and linking to the 
shared objectives. (See Appendix 12)  
At NAISHK, we celebrate student success and share next steps to ensure all students feel 
proud of their achievements.  
--- PAGE 1 ---
THE NAISHK LESSON  – APPENDIX  
A collection  of practical examples to use in the classroom.  
1) Do Now Activity  (History): The Entrance Ticket  to allow students to access the 
room.  
 
2) Framing Objectives Effectively  (English): 
 
So That: To understand how to identify aspects of characterisation so that you 
can effectively analyse the author’s intentions.  
Or  
Big Question : How has characterisation  been developed to demonstrate  
authorial intent?  
 
3) Differentiated Practice Questions Task (Science):  
Students complete a scaffolded quiz as a Do Now activity. Depending on their 
outcome, they are directed to complete a differentiated task, appropriate to their 
performance level. For example…  

--- PAGE 2 ---
 
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 3 ---
4) Learning Review Activity: ( Maths):  
Do now starter activity : For students as they walk into the class. Timer is set for 5 
minutes and this task w ould be done at the beginning of an Algebra unit. I t helps 
to review prior learning and demonstrate understanding.  
 
5) GTT Suggested questioning techniques:  
 
Cold Calling:  
- Use students’ names after you’ve posed the question  
- Keep it positive  
- Ask again  
- Make time for wait time  
- Repeat regularly in lessons  
- Encourage elaboration  
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 4 ---
6) Stretch and Challenge Activities  (Geography /English): 
Geography:  
 
English:  
 
 
7) Modelling Student Learning ( Chinese): 
 
Year 10 students independently assigned roles based on a selected debate topic and collaborated 
to prepare for a formal debate competition following a structured process. Throughout this process, 
students significantly improved their research skills, teamwork abilities, and public speaking 
prowess. The exercise of logical thinking greatly benefited them in crafting persuasive essays . 
 

--- PAGE 5 ---
8) Developing Oracy Skills (Dram a): 
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 6 ---
9) Understanding Level and Next Steps (Art):  
Skills Ladder Template:  
  
 
10)  Scaffolded modelling ( MFL/English): 
MFL:  
  
 

--- PAGE 7 ---
 
 
 
English:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 8 ---
11) Feedback ( William’s Four Quarters Model): 
 
 
GTT – ‘Feedback Should Be…’  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 9 ---
12) Reflection of Learning ( Sketch Notes): Sketching ideas learned linked to the 
objectives.  
 
 
 
 
 

